Discuss the purpose of this database in context of the startup, Sparkify, and their analytical goals.
State and justify your database schema design and ETL pipeline.
[Optional] Provide example queries and results for song play analysis.

# Purpose of the project:

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, we have to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

# Database Schema:

## We are creating here Star Schema with below Fact & Dimension Table:

### Fact Table:
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables:
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday



## Files included in Project Submission:

create_tables.py: It crates fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.It is a python script.

sql_queries.py:It is a Python script for SQL statements, which will be imported into create_tables.py and etl.py
etl.py: It is a Python script to load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.

## Justification for Schema Design & ETL pipeline :
In this project, we have applied data warehouses technology like AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, we loaded data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and executed SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

We used Amazon Distributed database as the amount of data is very large.
Star Schema is created depending on the client requirement to query easily from the data set.

## Project Data Set:

Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

